---
title: Volvo Car Corporation- A Legacy of Innovation and Adaptation
date: 20th Oct 2017
description: Volvo Car Corporation- A Legacy of Innovation and Adaptation
image: /blogs-img/Volvo_Ford.jpg
alt: Volvo Car Corporation- A Legacy of Innovation and Adaptation
ogImage: /blogs-img/Volvo_Ford.jpg
tags: ['corporate-leadership', 'volvo', 'ford']
published: true
---

### **Volvo Car Corporation: A Legacy of Innovation and Adaptation**

Volvo Car Corporation (stylized as VOLVO) is a Swedish luxury vehicle
manufacturer established in 1927 and headquartered in Gothenburg,
Sweden, operating from the VAK building.

### **Volvo & Ford: The American Influence**

Volvo Car Corporation was once part of Ford Motor Company's Premier
Automotive Group (PAG), alongside Jaguar, Aston Martin, and Land Rover.
Ford aimed to reposition Volvo as a premium brand, aligning it with the
entry-level offerings of Mercedes-Benz and BMW. This strategy led to the
development of the luxurious second-generation Volvo S80 and the premium
compact crossover Volvo XC60.

However, the global economic crisis of 2008 created uncertainty for U.S.
automakers, raising concerns about Volvo's future should Ford face
financial collapse. These concerns intensified with repeated mass
layoffs at Volvo. In December 2008, Ford announced it was putting Volvo
Cars up for sale due to mounting losses. By October 28, 2009, Ford
confirmed Zhejiang Geely Holding Group, the parent company of Chinese
automaker Geely Automobile, as the preferred buyer.

![alt text](/blogs-img/legacy-Innovation.jpg)

### **Moving Beyond Ford’s Assembly Line**

While modern cars no longer resemble Henry Ford's Model T,
mass-production assembly line techniques remain widely used. Volvo,
however, sought to move beyond traditional assembly lines. At its Kalmar
plant on Sweden’s east coast, the company moved toward a more flexible,
team-based manufacturing system. Computer-controlled carriers
transported cars through the facility, and teams of about 20 workers
were responsible for assembling entire sections, such as the electrical
system and engine.

This approach was also implemented at Volvo's Uddevalla plant,
constructed at a cost of \$315 million. Here, work teams were
responsible for assembling entire cars rather than performing
repetitive, single-task operations. The Kalmar plant, with its
distinctive hexagonal honeycomb layout, became a model for innovation,
inspiring changes at other Volvo facilities and within the global
automotive industry, including General Motors.

### **The Japanese Experiment: Learning from Toyota and Mitsubishi**

Volvo has long been synonymous with safety, introducing world-first
innovations such as the three-point seat belt, blind spot monitoring,
and pedestrian detection systems. This commitment to human-centric
design has shaped the company’s philosophy since its founding in 1927.
The guiding principle set by its founders remains: _“Cars are driven by
people. Therefore, the guiding principle behind everything we make at
Volvo is—and must remain—safety.”_

Recognizing the strengths of Japanese production techniques, Volvo
adopted the Andon system—pioneered by Toyota—to enhance quality control.
Andon allows any worker to stop production by pulling a yellow cord if
an issue arises, ensuring defects are addressed immediately. Daily team
boards display production targets and quality metrics, fostering
continuous improvement.

Volvo also partnered with Japanese automaker Mitsubishi to enhance
competitiveness. Mitsubishi, founded in 1873, sought this collaboration
to establish a European manufacturing presence at a lower cost and to
learn from Volvo’s expertise in safety and quality. However, the
partnership revealed significant cultural and operational challenges.
Mitsubishi estimated that Volvo needed a 20% workforce reduction to
achieve leaner production. This shift led Volvo to outsource parts of
its operations, affecting 1,300 employees. Communication barriers
further complicated matters, as Volvo employees had to transition from
Swedish and Dutch to English when working with Mitsubishi teams.

Volvo’s workforce also struggled with Japanese quality control
methodologies, including “quality circles” and strict interpretations of
production efficiency. Additionally, Volvo’s attempt to involve
employees in decision-making from design to final assembly backfired.
Instead of boosting productivity, it created uncertainty about roles and
responsibilities, ultimately making it difficult to integrate Japanese
techniques into Volvo’s work culture.

### **Conclusion: Volvo’s Human-Centric Legacy**

American and Japanese companies significantly influenced Volvo—whether
through assembly-line production, quality systems, or efficiency
methodologies. However, these approaches did not fully align with
Volvo’s core values. Despite being global symbols of innovation, the
Kalmar and Uddevalla plants were eventually shut down. The dominance of
traditional assembly lines and the rise of Japanese production methods
created pressure that Volvo struggled to withstand while maintaining its
human-centric philosophy.

Nonetheless, Volvo continues to prioritize safety, customer
satisfaction, and environmental sustainability. The company remains
dedicated to designing cars _“around you,”_ ensuring that every vehicle
embodies Volvo’s unwavering commitment to people and the world they live
in.
