---
title: A Journey Through Sacred Shores- Our Saurashtra Sojourn (Dec 2024)
date: 9th Dec 2024
description: A travelogue captures the essence of a family adventure through Gujarat‚Äôs spiritual landmarks, coastal beauty, and vibrant culture
image: /blogs-img/personal/saurashtra/Owl_crop.jpg
alt: A Journey Through Sacred Shores- Our Saurashtra Sojourn (Dec 2024)
ogImage: /blogs-img/personal/saurashtra/Owl_crop.jpg
tags: ['travelogue', 'gujarat2024', 'saurashtra2024', 'lifelines']
published: true
---

## A Journey Through Sacred Shores: Our Saurashtra Sojourn (Dec 2024) üåä‚ú®

Dates: 3rd -- 9th December 2024

Travellers: Siddhartha, Papiya , Riyanshi, Neelashri and our rented
Mahindra X500

I had been planning a 7--8 day trip for a while --- something relaxing
yet enriching, and most importantly, a journey we could all enjoy as a
family. After a lot of thought, discussions, and itinerary drafts, we
finally zeroed in on **Gujarat** as our destination.

Initially, Ahmedabad seemed like the natural entry point. But
considering our tight schedule and our desire to soak in the sea breeze
as much as possible, we opted to fly into **Rajkot** instead. It turned
out to be the right call.

This was our first proper family vacation in a long time, and the
excitement was contagious --- especially among the kids, who couldn't
wait to hit the road. To keep things flexible and fun, we decided to
**rent a self-drive car**, giving us the freedom to explore at our own
pace.
![beast](https://ik.imagekit.io/u6cq4dqll/Personal/saurashtra/beast.jpg?updatedAt=1745976534855)

To streamline planning, I used **Wanderlog** to build our itinerary. It
was a game-changer --- intuitive, shareable, and incredibly handy
throughout the trip. Highly recommended to anyone planning a multi-stop
adventure.

### Day 1 - Touchdown in Rajkot A Royal Rajasthani Turnaround

We took off from Delhi on 3rd December and landed at Hirasar Airport,
Rajkot, just before 7 PM --- but the trip didn't quite begin the way we
had hoped. We had booked a luxurious homestay penthouse in advance,
excited for a cozy start to our adventure. After a 1.5-hour drive from
the airport, we reached the location... only to discover that the
**property didn't exist**.

Despite multiple attempts to reach the owner, our calls went unanswered.
It was almost 9 PM by then, the kids were exhausted, and all we wanted
was a place to settle in for the night. That's when I quickly turned to
**MakeMyTrip**, and with a stroke of luck, found a last-minute booking
at **Chouki Dhani** --- a traditional Rajasthani-themed resort.

As it turned out, this was also where our **prearranged self-drive
rental car** was delivered. I had initially planned on getting a
**Mahindra Thar**, but considering space and practicality for the
family, I had settled for a **Nissan Terrano**. To our surprise, the
owners instead sent us a **Mahindra XUV500 Diesel Manual**.

The car looked a little jittery at first when I took it for a quick spin
to the parking --- it gave me a few shivers. But overall, it was
spacious, loaded, and ready to roll. With that, things started looking
up again. The vibe at Chouki Dhani was warm and welcoming --- folk
performances, puppet shows, camel rides, and a hearty thali dinner
lifted everyone's spirits. The kids loved it, and we finally got the
peace we needed to call it a night.

**Saurashtra was ready for us.**

### Day 2 - Temples, Tales & Tranquility --- Rajkot to Dwarka üöóüïç

The plan was to start early and visit **BAPS Swaminarayan Mandir** and
**Shri Ramakrishna Ashram** in Rajkot. However, with the change in
accommodation and our new location at Chouki Dhani on the outskirts,
those stops would've taken us off-track. So, we made a spontaneous and
very welcome change --- **skipped the Rajkot visits**, and instead spent
a relaxed morning enjoying a hearty **Rajasthani breakfast** at the
resort.

Refreshed and recharged, we hit the road straight for **Jamnagar**,
choosing to spend more time exploring there instead.

Our first stop was **Lakhota Lake**, where we took a leisurely walk
around its entire periphery, soaking in the calm and watching the locals
go about their morning. From there, we exited directly toward the nearby
**Bala Hanuman Temple**, famous for its continuous **Ram dhun chanting**
--- a Guinness World Record in devotion and endurance. The palace museum
beside the lake was unfortunately closed, but the **Tibetan Market**
nearby made up for it. After a stroll through its colorful lanes and a
quick lunch, we resumed our journey toward **Dwarka**.

By late afternoon, we checked into the **Goverdhan Green Resort**, our
serene base for the next two nights. That evening, under a golden sky,
we visited the sacred **Dwarkadhish Temple**, followed by the
breathtaking **Bhadkeshwar Mahadev Temple**, perched amidst the sea. The
waves, the chants, the evening aarti --- it all felt timeless.

### Day 3 - Dwarka & Beyond --- Sacred Shores and Serene Shrines üåÖüôè

This was a day devoted entirely to **divine exploration** --- the
spiritual heart of our Saurashtra journey. We started early in the
morning for **Beyt Dwarka**, which is typically accessed by boat, but we
took the scenic newly-built **sea bridge** --- a smooth and stunning
drive across the ocean that felt surreal in the morning light.

We parked our car right at the entrance of Beyt Dwarka and hopped into
an **e-rickshaw** that took us through narrow temple-lined lanes. The
highlight was, of course, the grand **Dwarkadhish Temple** --- but what
surprised us was the cluster of smaller shrines inside: **Radha Rani,
Mahalakshmi, Sakshi Gopal**, and others. Each corner offered something
unique, quiet, and reflective.

After completing our darshan there, we made a quick detour to the nearby
**Gatrad Mataji Mandir**, followed by the peaceful and welcoming
**Hanuman Dandi Temple**. The temple served **prasad**, and after the
early start and long drive, it was just what our empty stomachs needed
--- warm and filling.

We returned to our car and began driving back toward Dwarka. Along the
way, we stopped at **Gopi Talav**, a quaint and charming lake full of
colorful fish. The kids had a lovely time **feeding the fish**, and we
all cooled off with some fresh **coconut water** ü••.

Our next spiritual anchor was the **Nageshwar Jyotirlinga Temple** ---
one of the 12 sacred Jyotirlingas of Lord Shiva. This was a special
place for us, and we spent quality time here, soaking in the atmosphere.
We even made a second round for darshan to offer personal prayers and
offerings --- it was peaceful, powerful, and deeply moving.

As the sun began to set, we drove to the **Rukmini Devi Temple**, and
finally returned to **Dwarka** for a **second evening darshan at
Dwarkadhish Temple** --- because once just didn't feel enough.

The kids had a blast crossing the **Sudama Setu** once again. We offered
prayers at the sacred **Gomti Ghat**, then took a quiet walk along
**Dwarka Beach** all the way to the lighthouse, the sea breeze ruffling
our hair, seagulls in the air, and a feeling of calm washing over
everything.

Exhausted yet fulfilled, we returned to our hotel, ready to rest up for
the **long coastal drive to Somnath** the next day.

### Day 4 - A Journey Along the Coastal Gems - Dwarka to Somnath üåäüöò

After a hearty breakfast, we set off for our long drive to Somnath,
which was dotted with historic and religious gems that I had been
looking forward to. Our Beast X500 was proving to be more than capable,
effortlessly handling the journey with its power and comfort.

We started our drive along the coastal route, with windmills lining the
way. The landscape gradually shifted to lush coconut plantations, which
were serene and beautiful. To keep the kids entertained during the
drive, we packed extra snacks like chips, biscuits, and drinks.

Our first major stop was in **Porbandar**, where we visited:

- **Harsiddhi Mata Temple**, perched with breathtaking coastal views.

- **Kirti Mandir**, the birthplace of Gandhiji.

- **Sudama Temple**, a tribute to friendship and devotion.

While these places were impressive, we also indulged in some street
shopping in Porbandar, picking up local goodies and souvenirs.

As we continued our journey, we took a slight detour to visit the
mystical **Jambuvan Caves**. Though it was a bit off-route, it was
absolutely worth it. The caves were awe-inspiring, and the priest and
local people were incredibly helpful, sharing fascinating insights about
the site.

But the highlight of the day came as we reached **Madhavpur Beach**.
This was the first real beach on our journey, and the kids were
absolutely thrilled. We spent hours here, and it became a bit of a
challenge to get them to leave! We walked along the entire coastline and
enjoyed some delicious snacks at the coastal shacks---Maggie and corn,
the perfect beachside treat üåΩ.

![Madhavpur beach](https://ik.imagekit.io/u6cq4dqll/Personal/saurashtra/Madhavpur.jpg?updatedAt=1745976561989)

Eventually, it was time to leave the beach and head towards Somnath. We
stopped to fill our tires with air before continuing on the road,
finally arriving at **Somnath Gateway Hotel** in the evening. The hotel
room was huge, with four separate beds lined up in a way that gave it an
eerie resemblance to a hospital ward, but it was still a comfortable
place to rest after a long day on the road.

After an hour of rest, we headed to **Somnath Temple** for the
much-awaited **sunset aarti**. The experience was beyond words. As the
conch blew and the lamps glowed, we felt completely humbled by the
atmosphere. The temple was one of the cleanest, most beautiful ones I've
ever visited, and its beauty made me promise to return the next day.

We were so tired after the eventful day, so we had dinner at the hotel
and settled in for a peaceful night, eager to continue our journey the
next day to the magnificent Diu.

### Day 5 - Exploring the Portuguese Charm of Diu üèñÔ∏èüè∞

We left early for **Diu**, a charming coastal town with a rich
Portuguese legacy. Diu is known for its beautiful beaches, historical
sites, and vibrant mix of cultures, making it the perfect destination
for a day of exploration and relaxation.

Our first stop was **Nagao Beach**, a pristine stretch of sand with
crystal-clear waters. The beach was relatively quiet, offering a
peaceful escape, and the kids had a blast playing by the water.

Next, we headed to **Diu Fort**, an impressive structure offering
panoramic views of the Arabian Sea. The fort\'s ancient walls and scenic
surroundings made it an ideal spot to take in the beauty of the place.
The architecture of the fort, with its towering ramparts and cannons,
was a reminder of the colonial past, and we enjoyed wandering around,
soaking in the history.

After the fort, we visited **St. Paul's Church**, a stunning example of
Portuguese Baroque architecture. The intricate woodwork and the
beautiful altar left us in awe. We then headed to **Jalandhar Beach**,
another scenic spot that was less crowded but equally beautiful.

A significant moment of our trip was paying tribute at the **INS Khukri
Memorial**, which honors the brave Indian Navy sailors who lost their
lives during the 1971 Indo-Pak war. It was a solemn and moving
experience, and we spent some time reflecting on the sacrifice and
bravery of those who served.

The highlight of our Diu adventure came when we indulged in some
**adventure sports**---a thrilling **jet ski ride** and a fun **banana
boat trip**! üèÑ‚Äç‚ôÇÔ∏è The kids were especially excited, and the adrenaline rush
was a perfect way to experience the waters of Diu.

After all the excitement, we worked up an appetite and decided to enjoy
a seafood lunch. After searching a bit for the perfect spot, we finally
found a restaurant right at the shore. The fresh seafood was absolutely
delicious, and eating with the sound of the waves in the background made
the experience even more memorable.

On our way back, we visited **Shri Lakshmi Narayan Temple**, a
significant place for our family. We then made our way back to **Somnath
Temple**, where we did multiple rounds, soaking in its magnificence and
beauty. The experience was deeply spiritual and calming, and the
serenity of the temple left us feeling humbled. It\'s hard to describe
the peace we felt there---it was a truly personal and memorable moment
that I will always cherish.

### Day 6: Into the Wild --- Somnath to Sasan Gir ü¶Åüå≥

Having spent two nights in **Somnath**, there were still several
spiritual and historic places left unexplored. So, after an early
breakfast, we decided to cover these final gems before heading off to
**Gir** for yet another exemplary experience.

Our morning trail included:

- **Bhalka Tirth** -- A sacred site where Lord Krishna is believed to
  have been wounded by an arrow while resting. The temple idol
  captures that moment beautifully, and the air around felt still and
  reflective.

- **Triveni Sangam** -- The confluence of the **Hiran**, **Kapila**,
  and **Saraswati** rivers. This tranquil spot is considered highly
  auspicious. Though boat rides are usually available, none were
  running when we visited.

- **Gita Mandir** -- A serene temple with verses of the Bhagavad Gita
  carved on marble walls, offering a quiet space for introspection.

- **Panch Pandav Gufa** -- A small cave shrine believed to have been
  visited by the Pandavas during their exile.

- **Ban Ganga** -- A sacred spring associated with the legends of Lord
  Ram, tucked away amidst natural beauty.

- **Somnath Beach** -- Though not ideal for swimming, its wild waves
  and long coastline made for a refreshing stroll.

- **Shree Ram Mandir** -- A peaceful temple complex with
  well-maintained gardens and a calm, devotional atmosphere.

- **Kamnath Mahadev Mandir** -- A prominent Shiva temple with
  intricate architecture and spiritual depth.

- **Suraj Mandir** -- A lesser-known but striking Sun Temple dedicated
  to Surya Dev, with a unique location facing the sea.

By late morning, it was time to bid Somnath goodbye. As we drove towards
**Sasan Gir**, the coastal route gradually gave way to dense, arid
forests. We left behind the cool sea breeze and entered the earthy heat
and distinctive scent of the wild.

Just two hours from Somnath, we reached **Sasan Gir** and checked into
**Sarovar Portico**, a calm and comfortable retreat nestled close to the
forest. After an hour of much-needed rest, the highlight of the day
awaited us --- the **Gir Jungle Safari**!

We hopped into an open jeep, and it was a relief to hand over the car
duties to a capable driver and our enthusiastic guide. The forest buzzed
with life. As we ventured deeper, the dusty trails brought sightings of
**herds of deer** ü¶å, **colourful peacocks** ü¶ö, and **langurs** leaping
between trees. And then --- the moment we had been hoping for --- we
**spotted a majestic lion**, followed closely by **multiple lionesses**
and even a few **playful cubs** resting under the trees.

It was a day of great sightings, and as the sun dipped lower, we
exchanged stories with fellow travellers --- tales of earlier safaris,
rare encounters, and the awe that the Gir forest evokes in every
visitor.

As the sky turned a golden orange, we retired for the evening, tired but
elated, already thinking about how to make the most of our final day.

### Day 7: When Plans Change --- Food, Fabrics & Farewells üçΩÔ∏èüõçÔ∏è

Our final day began with a plan as grand as the journey so far --- a
trip to **Girnar**, the highest peak in Gujarat. After breakfast, we
drove for about an hour along wild, winding roads into the hills, aiming
to catch the early morning ropeway to the top and visit the sacred
**Amba Maa** and **Bhawani Temple**.

But fate had different plans.

Upon reaching, we were told the ropeway had been suspended for the day
due to high winds. Trekking to the top wasn\'t something we were ready
for --- our legs, after days of temple hopping and beach wandering, had
finally declared a strike.

So, we decided to shift gears --- instead of another spiritual stop, we
chose to indulge in two things we had hardly touched during the trip:
**authentic local Kathiyawadi food** and **shopping**.

We headed straight to **Rajkot**, giving ourselves 3--4 extra hours to
relax and savour the end of the trip at our own pace. A bit of research
led us to **TGT -- The Grand Thakar**, a name that kept popping up with
glowing reviews. And what a meal it turned out to be --- a hearty,
traditional **Kathiyawadi thali** that hit every spot. The Flavors, the
variety, and the warmth of the service made it one of the most memorable
meals of the journey.

Post lunch, we parked the car and wandered into a nearby market with one
mission --- to find the perfect **Bandhini dress material** for Papiya.
The search led us through a few shops, colourful displays, and warm
shopkeepers until we finally found the right place and picked up some
lovely fabrics --- vibrant, textured, and unmistakably Saurashtrian.

As the sun began its descent, so did our trip. It was time to start for
the airport. We bid a quiet goodbye to our **faithful Beast X500**, our
companion through coastlines, temples, forests, and forts. And with
that, we boarded our flight back home --- bags full, hearts fuller, and
memories packed to the brim ‚úàÔ∏è.

### Reflections üí≠

In just 7 days, we travelled over **1,000 kilometres** across Gujarat's
spiritual, historical, and natural landscapes. From **Dwarka\'s
ocean-washed temples** to **Somnath's majestic sanctum**, from **the
coastal calm of Diu** to **the wild thrill of Gir**, this journey
stitched together stories that will stay with us forever.

More than just sights, it gave us **insight** --- into our roots, our
culture, and each other.\
It was a trip that **touched our hearts**, **taught our kids**, and
**tightened our family bond**.\
We returned not just with souvenirs, but with a soul that had wandered
--- and found home in every stop. ‚ù§Ô∏è

![Riya](https://ik.imagekit.io/u6cq4dqll/Personal/saurashtra/Riya.jpg?updatedAt=1745976554355)
![Tiya](https://ik.imagekit.io/u6cq4dqll/Personal/saurashtra/Tiya.jpg?updatedAt=1745976558232)
